readme.md, before:

# Simple SharePoint authentication for Python

This library will handle authentication for your sharepoint site, allowing you to make straightforward HTTP requests from Python. The `get()` and `getfile()` methods are wrapped around the commonly used `requests` module, meaning that returned objects are familliar, easy to work with and well documented. 

## Initiate a SharePoint session:

```python
import sharepoint as sp
s = sp.Session("example.sharepoint.com")
```

You will be prompted to enter your username and password, which are used to request an STS token from Microsoft. An authentication cookie is then requested and saved to the `cookie` property for later use. 

## Make an API call:

```python
r = s.get("https://example.sharepoint.com/_api/web/lists/GetByName('Test Library')")
```

This will return a `requests` object. See the [requests documentation](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/) for details. The `get()` method sends an `Accept: application/json; odata=verbose"` header with all requests, so API responses will be formatted as JSON.

## Download a file:

```python
r = s.getfile("https://example.sharepoint.com/Test%20Library/Test%20File.pdf")
```

This will download the file to the current directory and return a `requests` object. Alternatively you can specify a location to save the file to:

```python
r = s.getfile("https://example.sharepoint.com/Test%20Library/Test%20File.pdf", "downloads/file.pdf")
```

## Credits

The authentication method used here is based on [this post](https://allthatjs.com/2012/03/28/remote-authentication-in-sharepoint-online/) by Luc Stakenborg.

Commit message:

Add option for custom headers in get()

readme.md, after:

# Simple SharePoint authentication for Python

This library will handle authentication for your sharepoint site, allowing you to make straightforward HTTP requests from Python. The `get()` and `getfile()` methods are wrapped around the commonly used `requests` module, meaning that returned objects are familliar, easy to work with and well documented. 

## Initiate a SharePoint session:

```python
import sharepoint as sp
s = sp.Session("example.sharepoint.com")
```

You will be prompted to enter your username and password, which are used to request an STS token from Microsoft. An authentication cookie is then requested and saved to the `cookie` property for later use. 

## Make an API call:

```python
r = s.get("https://example.sharepoint.com/_api/web/lists/GetByName('Test Library')")
```

This will return a `requests` object. See the [requests documentation](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/) for details. The `get()` method sends an `Accept: application/json; odata=verbose"` header with all requests, so API responses will be formatted as JSON.

Headers can be added or overridden by supplying a dictionary to the `get()` method:

```python
r = s.get("https://example.sharepoint.com", headers = {"Accept": "application/atom+xml"})
```

## Download a file:

```python
r = s.getfile("https://example.sharepoint.com/Test%20Library/Test%20File.pdf")
```

This will download the file to the current directory and return a `requests` object. Alternatively you can specify a location to save the file to:

```python
r = s.getfile("https://example.sharepoint.com/Test%20Library/Test%20File.pdf", "downloads/file.pdf")
```

## Credits

The authentication method used here is based on [this post](https://allthatjs.com/2012/03/28/remote-authentication-in-sharepoint-online/) by Luc Stakenborg.
